# Projects

Bookbase: This iOS app was my final project for my applications programming course during Spring 2024. The project follows the MVVM pattern of creating an iOS app. The basic functionality of the app allows users to find, add, and store books they have read or intend to read. I used swift and swiftui to build the app while getting my data from google's api. I was able to persist user data using swift's SwiftData which allows information to be stored locally on a person's phone. I was also able to implement widgets and an ISBN (like a book identification number) scanner using the Vision library which allows the camera to be used along with recognition technology.

NFL Stats Manager: This was my final project for my database management systems course during Fall 2024. The project includes a CLI where users can keep track of, alter, and view nfl stats. There are two scripts included which populated the tables with data which was current at the time I did it. I used Python and PostgreSQL to create this project and store the data.

Memory Manager: This project was part of my operating systems curriculum during Fall 2023. I had to implement the malloc, free, realloc, and the heap checker functions. This was done through C programming language running on Ubuntu 20.04 tthrough VirtualBox VM. All the code and function documentation can be seen in the malloc.c file.  I used a segregated free list implementation to keep track of free memory blocks and improve efficiency. Through the tests provided in the project folder, I was able to get about 10,000 kilo operations per second and 57% memory utilization.

Course Scheduler: This project was included in my Object Oriented Programming coursework during Spring 2022. The main goal was to create a scheduler for both student and admin use where admins can create new semesters, students, and courses, while students can add courses to their schedule for a specified semester that they choose. When an admin creates a course, they set attributes for the course including number of seats, coursecode, description, and the semester it is currently being offered. All these attributes along with the other data (such as students) is stored in a Derby database using SQL queries. Overall, this project utilized NetBeans, Derby DB, Netbeans GUI Tool, Java, and SQL.

Word Spell: This project was a part of my Applications Programming class which focuses on building iOS apps using Swift and SwiftUI. This project exemplifies my ability to use the Model, View, and View Model (MVVM) structure which many iOS apps use. Overall, the project required views for the user to form a word and settings adjustments which can be alterted using pickers. Custom shapes and game logic were also used as well.

Pokedex: This project was also part of the Applications Programming curriculum. This project mainly focused on our ability to make our views more user friendly while also being introduced to new concepts such as NavigationStacks. Pokemon were stored and retrieved using JSON encoding and decoding as well.
